# **User Flow**
We can think of our "experience loop" as three nested experiences, that we abstract in two ways. 
*The Diachronic Expeirence* (top level). "Diachronic experience" describes how users use an app over time. For our users, this is an individual or a couple coming back to the app over the months or years to plan their future. They use the app to do calculations in their planning, then go out and live and earn and spend accordingly. 

*Syhchronic Experience* (medium level). The Synchronic Experience describes one *User Session* that the user(s) have. They open the app with their new ideas of how they might plan their lives. They might create one or multiple scenarios or review old scenarios. As they discuss things and dream, they do multiple CalcSessions. 

*The signature experience* for this app is builing a scenario. Scenarios help users answer a big life question: if I pursue my dreams accoding to this plan, will we be ok financially? When a user completes the loop of coming in with this question and ending a session with an answer, then our app has worked. 

*Synchronic Experience: lower level: the CalcSession.* This is the activity that happens over and over again during one *User Session*. In a *CalcSession* the user updates a variable, such as their income, expenses, initial portfolio amount, inflation expectation, etc... and the app recalculates their portfolio projections. 


**"UX" Terms vs "Code" Terms**
In this documentation or in conversations when building, we distinguish between "UX" terms and "Code" or "Engineering" terms. UX terms are things that describe what human users do. We define them so that we can talk about usage, but they're not defined in the code. For example, `CalcSession` below is a term to describe a loop in the user experience. We don't need to have an object, variable, or any other code thing for this, but it is something that we align on the definition for. 


### **CalcSession**
A `CalcSession` is what happens when a user:
- changes a variable, then
- pushes Enter, then
- the app re-calculates all of the values and
- updates the UI with the new values. 

*This is a UX term* We do not need something called "CalcSession" in the code, it is just something that we will use in documentation to describe human behaviours. 
We can expect that a user's session with the app will consist of multiple CalcSessions as they play with the numbers 


### **Scenario** 
A `Scenario` is a file in our system and also a UX term for a thing that the user creates.  Our application loads up "scenarios" and Velella Users can work within the `variables` in the scenario (file) to build out their life scenario planning.  

### **Cost Percent of Portfolio (C-POP)**
The C-POP is a value that helps users understand how they are tracking towards their *safe withdrawal rate*. For people thinking about Financial Independence (including CoastFIRE), knowing your "number" means knowing how much your portfolio needs to be for you to retire. Classically, people use the "4% rule" as a heuristic for the amount they need in a portfolio: divide the portfolio by your costs to get a number. If that number is more than 4%, you need to keep saving (if you have deterined that 4% is your "save withdrawal rate" or "SWR"). 

SWR is a fixed number that defines a goal portfolio: it assumes that expenses are fixed, and SWR is fixed, so the users can use that to calculate their goal portfolio. 

In our case, things are different. We're assuming that expenses are fixed, and portoflio is re-calculating, so we want to show a number that users can compare to 4% to see how they're doing as they work through scenarios. Enter C-POP. 

C-POP is the "Cost Percent or Portfolio." Literally

`C-POP` = `Expenses` / `Portfolio Amount`

FOr users who have chosen a 4% SWR, they can see the exact year that they cross over that threshold. 

More importantly—for CoastFIRE users who may enter into eras of their lives with greater earnings and other eras with lesser earnings, they can see how they are tracking above or below their SWR by comparing their C-POP each year to their SWR.









